Job Zone	Name	Experience	Education	Job Training	Examples	SVP Range
1	Job Zone One: Little or No Preparation Needed	No previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, a person can become a general office clerk even if he/she has never worked in an office before.	These occupations may require a high school diploma or GED certificate. Some may require a formal training course to obtain a license.	Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few days to a few months of training. Usually, an experienced worker could show you how to do the job.	These occupations involve following instructions and helping others. Examples include bus drivers, forest and conservation workers, general office clerks,home health aides, and waiters/waitresses.	(Below 4.0)
2	Job Zone Two: Some Preparation Needed	Some previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience may be helpful in these occupations, but usually is not needed. For example, a drywall installer might benefit from experience installing drywall, but an inexperienced person could still learn to be an installer with little difficulty.	These occupations usually require a high school diploma and may require some vocational training or job-related course work. In some cases, an associate's or bachelor's degree could be needed.	Employees in these occupations need anywhere from a few months to one year of working with experienced employees.	These occupations often involve using your knowledge and skills to help others. Examples include drywall installers, fire inspectors, flight attendants, pharmacy technicians, salespersons (retail), and tellers.	(4.0 to < 6.0)
3	Job Zone Three: Medium Preparation Needed	Previous work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is required for these occupations. For example, an electrician must have completed three or four years of apprenticeship or several years of vocational training, and often must have passed a licensing exam, in order to perform the job.	Most occupations in this zone require training in vocational schools, related on-the-job experience, or an associate's degree. Some may require a bachelor's degree.	Employees in these occupations usually need one or two years of training involving both on-the-job experience and informal training with experienced workers.	These occupations usually involve using communication and organizational skills to coordinate, supervise, manage, or train others to accomplish goals. Examples include dental assistants, electricians,fish and game wardens, legal secretaries, personnel recruiters, and recreation workers.	(6.0 to < 7.0)
4	Job Zone Four: Considerable Preparation Needed	A minimum of two to four years of work-related skill, knowledge, or experience is needed for these occupations. For example, an accountant must complete four years of college and work for several years in accounting to be considered qualified.	Most of these occupations require a four - year bachelor's degree, but some do not.	Employees in these occupations usually need several years of work-related experience, on-the-job training, and/or vocational training.	Many of these occupations involve coordinating, supervising, managing, or training others. Examples include accountants, chefs and head cooks, computer programmers, historians, pharmacists, and police detectives.	(7.0 to < 8.0)
5	Job Zone Five: Extensive Preparation Needed	Extensive skill, knowledge, and experience are needed for these occupations. Many require more than five years of experience. For example, surgeons must complete four years of college and an additional five to seven years of specialized medical training to be able to do their job.	A bachelor's degree is the minimum formal education required for these occupations. However, many also require graduate school. For example, they may require a master's degree, and some require a Ph.D., M.D., or J.D. (law degree).	Employees may need some on-the-job training, but most of these occupations assume that the person will already have the required skills, knowledge, work-related experience, and/or training.	These occupations often involve coordinating, training, supervising, or managing the activities of others to accomplish goals. Very advanced communication and organizational skills are required. Examples include athletic trainers, lawyers, managing editors, phyicists, social psychologists, and surgeons.	(8.0 and above)
